February Newsletter blog post (#6123)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2023/03/10/2023-03-10-jenkins-newsletter.adoc

If you missed the initial meetings, the recordings are below:

- https://youtu.be/1glzTzCkMvw[February 23, 2023]
- https://youtu.be/vqMHdAUy85U[February 28, 2023]

Join in on all GSoC discussions on link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkinsci_gsoc-sig:gitter.im[gitter]

image:/images/post-images/2023/03/10/2023-03-10-jenkins-newsletter/image3.png[image,width=624,height=360]

=== Jenkins Awards

Award season is here! Nomination is closed but voting is https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScUL4GAL-6wOjHKbT86ptKSStnglKM9_MKTQXzjgwimCDEtGw/viewform[OPEN].
Congratulations to all nominees and thank you for your contributions! +
See post about link:/blog/2023/02/23/cdf-awards/[the Jenkins awards].

image:/images/post-images/2023/03/10/2023-03-10-jenkins-newsletter/image4.png[image,width=624,height=326]

[[infrastructure]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/infrastructure.png[Infrastructure Update]
Contributed by: author:dduportal[Damien Duportal]

Following the FOSDEM where most of the (infra) team was present physically, February was a busy month for the Jenkins Infrastructure:

> - JFrog (repo.jenkins-ci.org) bandwidth reduction: Jenkins continuous integration jobs are now using significantly less internet bandwidth thanks to the artifact caching proxy implemented by the team.
> The artifact caching proxy is implemented on our three cloud providers so that artifacts can be downloaded from a local cache rather than accessing the artifact repository.
> - Jenkins LTS `2.375.3` is used on all of our controllers less than 3 days after its release
> - All Jenkins deprecated plugins had been removed on all of our controllers (jquery, momentjs, ace-editor)
> - All of our (six) Kubernetes clusters were upgraded from `1.23` to `1.24` baselines, in the three cloud providers
> - All of the private and internal web services are using TLS with certificates provided by Let's Encrypt (with Azure DNS challenge)
> - We contributed to Docker documentation after catching issues with Docker CE `23.x` fresh release and Docker BuildX (on Ubuntu)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In an effort to reduce bandwidth with JFrog (repo.jenkins-ci.org), Jenkins continuous integration jobs are now using significantly less internet bandwidth thanks to the artifact caching proxy implemented by the team.
The artifact caching proxy is implemented on our three cloud providers, so that artifacts can be downloaded from a local cache rather than accessing the artifact repository.
* Jenkins LTS `2.375.3` is now used on all of our controllers, less than 3 days after its release.
* We have removed all Jenkins deprecated plugins on all of our controllers such as jquery, momentjs, and ace-editor.
* We upgraded all six of our Kubernetes clusters from the `1.23` to `1.24` baseline in the three cloud providers.
* All of the private and internal web services are now using TLS with certificates provided by Let's Encrypt, along with Azure DNS challenge.
* We contributed to Docker documentation after catching issues with the Docker CE `23.x` fresh release and Docker BuildX on Ubuntu.
```
suggestion for wording/formatting of some sentences, update - to * for lists

[[documentation]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/02/07/2023-02-07-jenkins-newsletter/documentation.png[Documentation Update]
Contributed by: author:kmartens27[Kevin Martens]

> February was a busy month for the Jenkins project. We want to highlight several blog posts from various authors such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
February was a busy month for the Jenkins project.
We want to highlight several blog posts from various authors such as:
```
sentence per line formatting

> - Our link:/blog/2023/02/21/thoughts-on-FOSDEM-2023/[FOSDEM recap], including insights from the Jenkins participants at the event
> - The link:/blog/2023/02/23/cdf-awards/[Jenkins contributor awards] by author:alyssat[Alyssa Tong]
> - Multiple posts regarding link:/blog/2023/02/01/gsoc-update/[Google Summer of Code] and link:/blog/2023/02/23/gsoc2023-announcement/[our participation] from author:jmmeessen[Jean-Marc Meessen]
> - Our link:/blog/2023/02/07/jenkins-newsletter/[January newsletter] from the Jenkins SIG leaders
> - A link:/blog/2023/02/28/build-msi-locally/[tutorial on building a Jenkins MSI] on a Windows machine by author:gounthar[Bruno Verachten]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Our link:/blog/2023/02/21/thoughts-on-FOSDEM-2023/[FOSDEM recap], including insights from the Jenkins participants at the event
* The link:/blog/2023/02/23/cdf-awards/[Jenkins contributor awards] by author:alyssat[Alyssa Tong]
* Multiple posts regarding link:/blog/2023/02/01/gsoc-update/[Google Summer of Code] and link:/blog/2023/02/23/gsoc2023-announcement/[our participation] from author:jmmeessen[Jean-Marc Meessen]
* Our link:/blog/2023/02/07/jenkins-newsletter/[January newsletter] from the Jenkins SIG leaders
* A link:/blog/2023/02/28/build-msi-locally/[tutorial on building a Jenkins MSI] on a Windows machine by author:gounthar[Bruno Verachten]
```
suggestion for formatting

We've also received numerous pull requests from contributors that are getting started with Jenkins, as well as several excited participants of the Google Summer of Code.
For all of the work and energy you're putting into the Jenkins project, we extend our deepest gratitude.

[[Governance]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/governance.png[Governance Update]

Contributed by: author:markewaite[Mark Waite]

The Jenkins governance board met once in February, resolved several action items, and noted the progress on projects with sponsors like JFrog and Atlassian.
We're sincerely grateful for the sponsorships provided by those generous companies and many other companies.

[[platform]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/platform-modernization.png[Platform Modernization Update]

Contributed by: author:gounthar[Bruno Verachten]

> Ongoing work:
> 
>  - Centos `7` Jenkins Controller Docker Image proposal: deprecate the centos images.
> We'll need an announcement and a https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep[JEP].
> We'll also release a merged version of the `centos` and `centos7` image as the very last centos `7` Docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of our ongoing work, we are considering CentOS 7 and its eventual end of life.
There is a proposal to deprecate the Centos `7` Jenkins controller Docker images.
If we decided to deprecate these images, we'll publish an announcement and a https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep[JEP].
Before it is fully deprecated, we'll also release a merged version of the `centos` and `centos7` image as the very last CentOS `7` Docker image.
```
suggestion for updating text

> Docker images:
> 
> * Latest updates on the agent images:
> ** ssh-agent: bump Git version on Windows to 2.39.2.windows.1 (https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-ssh-agent/pull/209[#209]) @github-actions
> ** docker-agent: bump Git version on Windows to 2.39.2.windows.1 (https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-agent/pull/376[#376]) @github-actions
> ** inbound agent:
> *** bump the parent image jenkins/agent version to 3107.v665000b_51092-4 (https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-inbound-agent/pull/331[#331]) @github-actions
> *** bump the parent image jenkins/agent version to 3107.v665000b_51092-3 (https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-inbound-agent/pull/330[#330]) @github-actions
> *** bump updatecli/updatecli-action from 2.19.0 to 2.20.1 (https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-inbound-agent/pull/329[#329]) https://github.com/dependabot[@dependabot]
> *** Windows controller image is not updated as often as the rest. It's been more than one year without any update. We may simply drop it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In regards to our Docker images, there were several updates here as well:

* The latest updates are now part of the agent images such as:
** ssh-agent: Upgraded Git version on Windows to 2.39.2.windows.1 (https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-ssh-agent/pull/209[#209]) @github-actions
** docker-agent: Upgraded Git version on Windows to 2.39.2.windows.1 (https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-agent/pull/376[#376]) @github-actions
** Inbound agent:
*** Upgraded the parent image jenkins/agent version to 3107.v665000b_51092-4 (https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-inbound-agent/pull/331[#331]) @github-actions
*** Upgraded the parent image jenkins/agent version to 3107.v665000b_51092-3 (https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-inbound-agent/pull/330[#330]) @github-actions
*** Upgraded updatecli/updatecli-action from 2.19.0 to 2.20.1 (https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-inbound-agent/pull/329[#329]) https://github.com/dependabot[@dependabot]
*** The Windows controller image is not updated as often as the rest.
It's been more than one year without any updates, and we may choose to drop it.
```
suggestion to add text/sentence structure to the list items

> * Debian 12 (“bookworm”) will not deliver OpenJDK 11
> ** The end of life date for Debian's openJDK11 won't happen until 2026 or 2027.
> ** The documentation will be updated when it goes out, so that we describe the use of Jenkins with openJDK17.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* With the release of Debian 12 (“bookworm”), Debian will no longer deliver OpenJDK 11.
** Thankfully, the end of life date for Debian's openJDK11 won't happen until 2026 or 2027.
** The Jenkins documentation will be updated when it goes out, so that we describe the use and installation of Jenkins with openJDK17.
```
adding some words/sentence syntax

New platforms:

* RISC-V support is far from official for Jenkins, but tests are progressing.

[[modern-ui]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/ui_ux.png[User Experience Update]

Contributed by: author:markewaite[Mark Waite]

> User experience improvements continued to arrive in February thanks to contributions from author:janfaracik[Jan Faracik], author:notmyfault[Alexander Brandes], author:timja[Tim Jacomb], https://github.com/mawinter69[Markus Winter], and others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User experience improvements continued to arrive in February, thanks to contributions from author:janfaracik[Jan Faracik], author:notmyfault[Alexander Brandes], author:timja[Tim Jacomb], https://github.com/mawinter69[Markus Winter], and others.
```
small formatting addition

> Look for the improvements in recent weekly releases and in the upcoming Jenkins `2.387.1` LTS release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Look for the improvements in recent weekly releases and in the new Jenkins `2.387.1` LTS release.
```
update wording since 2.387.1 has released today

> The pipeline graph viewer plugin continues to improve its user interface. See the video highlights in the https://community.jenkins.io/t/user-experience-sig-march-1-2023/6057[[.underline]#User Experience SIG recording#].. Build logs are now viewed from the main panel with easier navigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin:pipeline-graph-view[pipeline graph viewer plugin] continues to improve its user interface.
Refer to the video highlights in the https://community.jenkins.io/t/user-experience-sig-march-1-2023/6057[[.underline]#User Experience SIG recording#].
Additionally, build logs are now viewed from the main panel with easier navigation.
```
small suggestion for text/formatting

[[security-fixes]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/security.png[Security Update]

Contributed by: author:wadeck[Wadeck Follonier]

The security team has prepared the March 8, 2023 security release of Jenkins `2.394` (weekly), Jenkins `2.387.1` (LTS), and Jenkins `2.375.4` (previous LTS).

> Special thanks to Daniel Beck and other security team members for their work on the upcoming release of Jenkins core and on plugin security reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Special thanks to Daniel Beck and other security team members for their work on the upcoming release of Jenkins core and our plugin security reports.
```
small syntax suggestion

---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins February 2023 Newsletter"
tags:
- jenkins
- newsletter
- community
- contribute
authors:
- alyssat
- dduportal
- kmartens27
- markewaite
- wadeck
- gounthar
opengraph:
image: /images/post-images/2023/02/07/2023-02-07-jenkins-newsletter/centered-newsletter.png
links:
discourse: true
---

image:/images/post-images/2023/02/07/2023-02-07-jenkins-newsletter/centered-newsletter.png[Jenkins January Newsletter]

> ==  Highlights
> 
> * Proposal: deprecate the `centos` images
> * 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==  Highlights

* FOSDEM 2023 insights
* Jenkins is a mentor organization for Google Summer of Code
* Several container image updates
* Jenkins Awards voting is now open
```

Author: Thanks a lot Kevin.
